but his nomination for CIA director be
withdrawn Carter agreed Brit Hume wraps
up what happened as Sorensen arrived at
the hearing there was no hint he would
do other than try to save his nomination
with a strong rebuttal to charges he had
misused classified material and a strong
rebuttal is just what the Senators heard
my handling of classified information
was at all times in accordance with the
then existing laws regulations and
practices Sorensen did acknowledge that
what he called legitimate questions had
been raised concerning his experience
and philosophy but he strongly defended
these as well so it came as a shock when
at the end of his ten page prepared
statement Sorensen paused briefly then
announced his withdrawal but it is now
clear mr. chairman that a substantial
portion of the United States Senate and
many members of the intelligence
community are not yet ready to accept as
director of Central Intelligence an
outsider who believes as I believe on
these two legitimate questions there
then followed a familiar Senate ritual
committee members who had been most
active against Sorenson joined in the
course of praise of him now that he was
beaten I think that what mr. Sorenson
did today was not only electrifying but
it was brave and generous and I commend
him for it
Sorenson was unemotional throughout but
as he stood to leave with the reporters
swarming and jostling around him he
allowed his feelings to surface in one
parting shock would you recommend I
think it's clear from the
[Music]
and their consideration of the next
intelligence Brett Hume ABC News
Washington
this is Sam Donaldson in Plains Georgia
it was Jimmy Carter who presided over
the unveiling of the Sorenson nomination
last December 23rd but it failed the
press secretary Jody Powell to close the
curtain on it today in Carter's name ted
Sorensen's action was characteristically
generous and unselfish designed to spare
the administration and the country the
effects of a divisive and emotional
controversy I deeply regret this
situation the administration and that
intelligence community have lost the
services I'm an extremely intelligent
and dedicated man Powell said Carter
talked to key senators over the weekend
who told him it looked bad and he talked
to Sorenson yesterday the two agreeing
that withdrawal was a likely possibility
but the decision to do that wasn't made
until this morning and it was Sorensen's
he wasn't pushed insisted Powell
however Carter made no attempt to
dissuade him can this episode be seen as
a rejection of Carter's judgment no said
Powell Carter is a grown man and things
haven't always worked out the way he
wanted it seems apparent that when
things weren't working out this time
Carter backed away as gracefully as he
could obviously having decided that when
he has his first big fight with Congress
it won't be over Theodore Sorensen Sam
Donaldson ABC News Plains Georgia